[Music]
14 presidents foreign intelligence
advisory board established as an
impartial group of distinguished
citizens who had meet periodically to
review the activities and operations of
the intelligence community the
president's foreign intelligence
advisory board is officially mandated to
one advise the president concerning the
objectives conduct management and
coordination of the various activities
making up the overall national
intelligence effort to conduct a
continuing review and assessment of
foreign intelligence and related
activities in which the Central
Intelligence Agency and other government
departments and agencies are engaged
three receive consider and take
appropriate action with respect to
matters identified to the board by the
Central Intelligence Agency and other
government departments and agencies of
the intelligence community in which the
support of the board will further the
effectiveness of the national
intelligence effort and for report to
the president concerning the board's
findings and appraisals and make
appropriate recommendations for actions
to achieve increased effectiveness of
the government's foreign intelligence
effort in meeting national intelligence
needs the current PF IAB is the
successor to the president's board of
consultants on foreign intelligence
activities created in early 1956 out of
a mixed motivation which sought to
respond to a recommendation of the
Hoover Commission on organization of the
executive branch of government calling
for a committee of experienced private
citizens who shall have the
responsibility to examine and report to
the president periodically on the work
of government foreign intelligence
agencies the PBC fi was also established
out of concern over congressional
efforts then underway to institute a
Joint Committee on the CIA to carry out
oversight duties with regard to the
intelligence community composed of eight
members the board of consultants met a
total of nineteen times during its
tenure under President Eisenhower five
sessions being held with chief executive
and submitted over
forty-two major recommendations
regarding the functioning of the
intelligence community as a matter of
formality the panel submitted
resignations on January 7th 1961 in
anticipation of the new Kennedy
administration inactive during the next
four months the unit was revitalized in
the aftermath of the Bay of Pigs fiasco
and given its present designation the
president's foreign intelligence
advisory board provision was also made
for the payment of compensation to the
PF IAB members in addition to expenses
incurred in connection with the work of
the panel while President Johnson
maintained the board until its 1961
mandate President Nixon prescribed
specific functions for the group during
his first year in office President Ford
has continued the operations of the PF
IAB under this directive the unit
currently meets on the first Thursday
and Friday of every other month is
assisted by a small staff and utilizes
occasional ad hoc committees or
workgroups to organize some aspects of
its work
[Music]
this is our hidden history
you